random/bookreviews.md, before:

---
draft: false
toc: false
comments: false
categories:
- Random
tags:
- books
title: "Book Reviews"
wip: false
snippet: "Short reviews for some of the books I've read."

---

The local public library uses the bibliocommons platform. I've started adding
short reviews for each of the books I've read. You can see most of them them at
the bottom of the [book list](booklist.md).

The titles are
"[author last, first] - [series (if any)] - [book name] - [finished timestamp] - [score/5]".

## Egan, Greg - Zendegi - Jan 2023 - 5/5
Disclosure: I was born and raised in Iran. I liked the book and especially the
parts related to Shahnameh. Not all the Farsi/Persian words used in the book
(mostly in conversations) were translated. I think non-native speakers would
have benefited from it. Greg's short story in [Galactic Empires][galactic-empires]
(see the next item) named "Riding the Crocodile" also uses Persian/Middle-Eastern
elements.

[galactic-empires]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32333734-galactic-empires

## Clarke, Neil - Galactic Empires (Anthology) - 16 May 2023 - 4/5
Nice collection of stories. I love anthologies because if I cannot connect with
a story after a few pages, I can move to the next story. Fortunately, this only
happened twice with this book (doesn't mean those stories are bad, I just didn't
like them).

## Drake, David & Stirling, S. M. - The General 01-02 - Warlord - 20 May 2023  2215 - 2/5
The first two books of the Raj Whitehall or General series. I only finished the
book because I love [David Drake][david-drake]. I didn't like the very
monotonous battles. I guess I am more of a [Hammer's Slammers][slammers] fan
than low tech war.

## Sterling, Bruce - Pirate Utopia - 1/5
Stopped two short stories in. While I liked the settings, it was more of an
anarcho-sth equivalent of the [Freehold][freehold] series by Michael Williamson
(oh, boy do I have the spicy review for what he has become since he wrote it).
Not enough action in the collection of short stories.

[freehold]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freehold_(novel)

## Ruocchio, Christopher - Sword and Planet (Anthology) - 24 May 2023  1500 - 5/5
Good collection of short stories at the intersection of Sci-Fi and Fantasy. I
enjoyed reading all of them. This is a sub-genre that I need to explore more.
Cyborgs in a fantasy setting? Sign me up.

## Leckie, Ann - Imperial Radch 01 - Ancillary Justice - 30 May 2023  0047 - 3/5
I enjoyed the book. It has won a laundry list of prestigious awards. While I
loved the main character, the world building took most of the book. It's as-if
the book was written with the intention of being the first in a series. I did
not excite me for the second book (as of August 2023 I've not continued the
series, yet).

## Anderson, Kevin - Saga of the Seven Suns 01 - Hidden Empire - 04 June 2023  1801 - 4/5
Book first in the [Saga of the Seven Suns][seven-suns] series. Most of this book
is world building. This might get boring There are a ton of characters,
factions, and plots. If you like vast space operas, this is the series for you.
I subtracted one star. Because IMO a lot of the world building could have been
done in later books. There was no need to include some minor plots in book one.

Think of this as the Sci-Fi equivalent of [Wheel of Time][wot] series.

[seven-suns]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Saga_of_Seven_Suns
[wot]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wheel_of_Time

## Cline, Ernest - Ready Player Two - 07 June 2023  2100 - 0/5
Oh God, where do I start? Even being a fan of "main character transported to
virtual/parallel/fantasy worlds" (or Isekai if you're an anime fan), I did not
like the first book (Ready Player One).

I didn't think it would be possible to cram more 80s references than the first
book, but Ready Player Two did. It's a non-stop vomit. This new book introduces
the concept of "Needlepoints." These are locations in the OASIS that trigger
background music. Every page has at least 2-3 song references played at these
points.

Following the tradition, the new book also has a series of quests. The quests
are very simple. Most of them are handwaved with "I have already done a series
of activities on this planet and have this thingamajig that solves it." At least
3 of them where unnecessary.

## Scalzi, John - The Dispatcher - 08 June 2023  0845 - 4/5
## Scalzi, John - The Dispatcher, Murder by Other Means - 10 June 2023  2130 - 4/5
Scalzi writes "Sci-Fi that sells" and I guess I respect that. You gotta earn a
living. Not every book can be [Old Man's War][old-war].

[old-war]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Man%27s_War_series

Both books are quick and easy reads in the same universe. The universe's premise
is interesting. 999/1000 you return to life after you're killed. The dispatcher
is a state regulated killer. They kill people who are dying so they return to
life.

## Cordova, Jason - Chicks in Tank Tops (Anthology) - 14 June 2023  0919 - 5/5
Nice collection of SFF short stories with female protagonists and, well, tanks!
The tanks are not always conventional. They're balloons, spring-wired
contraptions, and at least in one occasion, a beloved classic literary
character. I only skipped one story in the book.

There are two stories by my favorite author [David Drake][david-drake]. You
would have expected the stories to be about [Hammer's Slammers][slammers], but
they are not. The tank in the stories is a surprise.

[david-drake]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Drake
[slammers]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hammer%27s_Slammers

## Ruocchio, Christopher & Korsgaard, Sean CW - Worlds Long Lost (Anthology) - 16 June 2023  2245 - 4/5
I've quickly become a fan of Baen's anthologies (mostly by Chris Ruocchio).

Collection of short stories involving alien archaeologies. It has quite a few
horror stories, ranging from "ancient Gods waking up" to "mind-controlling
aliens." Some others were more relaxed like "we've found an ancient city, let's
extrapolate how the aliens looked like and lived." Some were more adventurous
and followed the footsteps of extinct civilizations.

The only reason it got 4/5: The story by Orson Scott Card really felt out of
place in this anthology. It really didn't have anything to do with ancient
aliens remains or artifacts. I think they just wanted to include a story by a
famous writer.

## Ruocchio, Christopher & Daniel, Tony - Star Destroyers (Anthology) - 19 June 2023  0002 - 3.5/5
I gave this book 3.5/5 because not all of the stories were really revolving around "ships."

My favorites:

* "Superweapon" (disclosure: I am a huge [David Drake][david-drake] fan) and
  "Another Solution" were two of my favorites. Thoughtful and almost zero action
  with the theme of "ships have souls."
* Some were great action/combat stories like "Hate in the Darkness," "Try Not to
  Kills Us All," "Helping Hand," and "Not Made for Us." TBH, the latter's
  connection to a ship is tangential and the setting could have been anywhere
  else.

What I didn't like:

"Boomers" (ironically, also mirrors the generation midnset) and "Icebreaker"
were a copy of the typical "non-US country bad" online discourse. "Magnolia
Incident" was "don't complain about the military taking away your civil rights
because they're the only thing between you and scary aliens and also there are
ships in this story." If I want a sermon of how "military is the only thing
protecting us from aliens/brown people/bad things" I can re-read
[Starship Troopers][starship-troopers-novel].

[starship-troopers-novel]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Starship_Troopers

## Bear, Greg - War Dogs - 0/5
I stopped on page 130/291. For a military sci-fi book, there was not a lot of
action. It take skill to make a book in this genre boring.Maybe I am more used
to the writing style of Drake, Weber, and Dietz.

## Schmidt, Bryan Thomas - Infinite Stars: the definitive anthology of space opera and military SF (Anthology) - 01 July 2023  1405 - 4.5/5
Great collection of "Space Opera" short stories by some of my favorite writers.
Most are side stories (or in between books) in the authors' established series.
E.g., David Weber's story happens before the Honorverse series. David Drake's
story is about Lt. Leary (RCN series). Lost Fleet story by Jack Campbell and so
on.

If you like this book, read the second volume, "Infinite Stars: Dark Frontiers."

The only stories that I skipped were "Imperium Imposter" and "A Taste of Ashes."

## Williamson, Michael Z. - Freehold 07 - Angleeyes - 05 July 2023  0125 - 0.5/5
Born and raised in an authoritarian Middle-Eastern country, I have a healthy
distaste for government. Williamson is a libertarian and [Freehold][freehold]
was a libertarian utopia. I loved it and appreciated his worldview of "small
folks against big government." I didn't question how the big bad sluggish and
incompetent UN became so powerful. I guess this was before I realized I am more
of a [Mack Reynolds][mack-reynolds] type of "big gov hater."

[mack-reynolds]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mack_Reynolds

Most people's problem with this book are the very detailed and graphic sex
scenes. It's a series of soft porn scenes interlaced with Sci-Fi. I also think
they were unnecessary, but hey, "sex sells."

I am not sure what has happened to the author since the original Freehold book
because he has turned into the online libertarian warrior caricature and a
walking Facebook memes complaining about the new generation.

I laughed out loud halfway through the book when in the middle of the
interrogation, the torturer said "my preferred pronouns are xir." I didn't
expect a "pronouns in bio" moment and the main character ranting about trans
people. You wanna make a torturer trans, I have no problem with that, but "xir
is a torturer because xir is trans" was hilarious.

There were discussions about how minimum wage, employee benefits (Freehold
businesses went bankrupt because they had to provide benefits, lol), work hour
regulations (the torturers couldn't work more than 10 hours, lol), government
mandated contracts and even warnings on tools/appliances. What makes this more
hilarious is the author served 25 years with the US military which has all of
this and more. It's the biggest socialist jobs program in the country.

## Anderson, Kevin - Saga of the Seven Suns 02 - Forest of Stars - 15 July 2023  1220 - 5/5
Book two the [Saga of the Seven Suns][seven-suns]. I liked this one more than
the first because the world building was done and the characters are becoming
more interesting (to me).

## Rusch, Kristin K. - Women of Futures Past: Classic Stories - 16 July 2023  1301 - 5/5
I loved this book. There were so many different stories from different
perspectives. I also liked the author introductions before each story. Those
give the reader an idea of what else the author has written. I added so many
books to my "to read" list.

## Monae, Janelle - The Memory Librarian: And Other Stories of Dirty Computer - 08 July 2023  0130 - 3.5/5
I loved the settings and some of the stories, especially the main story "The
Memory Librarian." "Timebox" was great."Save Changes" was more fantasy than
cyberpunk. I skipped "Nevermind" and "Timebox Altar(ed)" halfway through.

## Gannon, Charles E., Barber, Griffin, Kennedy, Chris, & Massa, Mike - Tales of the Terran Republic - Mission Critical - 21 July 2023  0928 - 4/5
This is a book in the "Tales of The Terran Republic Universe" and part of the
"Murphy's Lawless" series. This book is a compilation of three novellas
"Infiltration" (Griffin Barber), "Insertion" (Chris Kennedy), and "Assault"
(Mike Massa) weaved together. Read the other books before starting this.

I deducted one star because this is not known beforehand. You're dropped in the
middle of a built universe without much explanation. Some of the concepts of the
book are explained through the book, but some questions are never answered.
Like, who are even the Harvesters?

There's a lot of text about character backgrounds and their relationships with
the original inhabitants of the system. These are never fully explored because
they're the subject of previous books in the series.

Other than that, the action is fluid and I liked the how book jumped between
the different locations and how everything came together for the final showdown.

## Ringo, John - Ghost - 0/5
Oh God, where do I start with this. I stopped a few chapters in. Ringo was the
guy whose stories made me realize a not so insignificant portion of Military
Sci-Fi aliens are in fact "bad brown people" (from the Middle-East).

The only positive thing about this book is the famous
["Oh John Ringo, No"][ringo-no] meme.

[ringo-no]: https://hradzka.livejournal.com/194753.html

## Cambias, James L. - Billion Worlds 01 - The Godel Operation - 05 Aug 2023  1019 - 5/5
The "Billion Worlds" universe is set 10,000 years into the future. The billion
worlds refer to the almost innumerable habitats, terraformed planets/moons, and
modified asteroids in the solar system (and a few nearby stars) housing
trillions of biological and digital beings. There are genetically modified
humans, dolphins, Martians, and other species mixed with AIs of different
intelligence levels.

The universe offers digital existence, genetic modification, matter printers
(e.g., create almost any matter like food or clothes). Travel is still bound by
physical laws so going around the solar system is slow (and required
hibernation). There are a few nearby stars that are populated (there's a mention
of ships being sent at around half of the speed of light).

The story follows a group of characters (mainly a "robot AI" and a human) in
search of a superweapon. I like the universe and Cambias' writing style.

## Cambias, James L. - Billion Worlds 02 - The Scarab Mission - 06 Aug 2023  2234 - 5/5
Another quick read in the "Billion Worlds" universe. I will not repeat the
description from my last review (see "The Godel Operation" review above). The
stories are not related. There's a recurring character, but that's about it.
This one is centered around an empty habitat and a group of salvagers who are
looking for valuables.

## Cambias, James L. - Arkad's World - 14 Aug 2023  1114 - 4.5/5
This is my 3rd consecutive James Cambias book in 2 weeks.

Exciting journey of a group of humans through a strange planet inhabited by
countless species of aliens. I give the world building 6/5 and main character
development 3/5.

I especially liked how the author had devised a sort of distinctive grammar and
sentence structure in English for the each species' usage of the planet's
"common tongue" language. My favorite is the Itooti's usage of adjectives based
on the tone of the conversation. E.g., "Curious [Name] wants to know why flimsy
looking aliens [refering to humans] are in civilized [city name]."

Some cons: 2 of the 4 main humans are stock characters and they did not have a
lot of development. A couple of loose ends are not tied.

Commit message:

update booklist and book reviews

random/bookreviews.md, after:

---
draft: false
toc: false
comments: false
categories:
- Random
tags:
- books
title: "Book Reviews"
wip: false
snippet: "Short reviews for some of the books I've read."

---

The local public library uses the bibliocommons platform. I've started adding
short reviews for each of the books I've read. You can see most of them them at
the bottom of the [book list](booklist.md).

The titles are
"[author last, first] - [series (if any)] - [book name] - [finished timestamp] - [score/5]".

## Egan, Greg - Zendegi - Jan 2023 - 5/5
Disclosure: I was born and raised in Iran. I liked the book and especially the
parts related to Shahnameh. Not all the Farsi/Persian words used in the book
(mostly in conversations) were translated. I think non-native speakers would
have benefited from it. Greg's short story in [Galactic Empires][galactic-empires]
(see the next item) named "Riding the Crocodile" also uses Persian/Middle-Eastern
elements.

[galactic-empires]: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32333734-galactic-empires

## Clarke, Neil - Galactic Empires (Anthology) - 16 May 2023 - 4/5
Nice collection of stories. I love anthologies because if I cannot connect with
a story after a few pages, I can move to the next story. Fortunately, this only
happened twice with this book (doesn't mean those stories are bad, I just didn't
like them).

## Drake, David & Stirling, S. M. - The General 01-02 - Warlord - 20 May 2023  2215 - 2/5
The first two books of the Raj Whitehall or General series. I only finished the
book because I love [David Drake][david-drake]. I didn't like the very
monotonous battles. I guess I am more of a [Hammer's Slammers][slammers] fan
than low tech war.

## Sterling, Bruce - Pirate Utopia - 1/5
Stopped two short stories in. While I liked the settings, it was more of an
anarcho-sth equivalent of the [Freehold][freehold] series by Michael Williamson
(oh, boy do I have the spicy review for what he has become since he wrote it).
Not enough action in the collection of short stories.

[freehold]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Freehold_(novel)

## Ruocchio, Christopher - Sword and Planet (Anthology) - 24 May 2023  1500 - 5/5
Good collection of short stories at the intersection of Sci-Fi and Fantasy. I
enjoyed reading all of them. This is a sub-genre that I need to explore more.
Cyborgs in a fantasy setting? Sign me up.

## Leckie, Ann - Imperial Radch 01 - Ancillary Justice - 30 May 2023  0047 - 3/5
I enjoyed the book. It has won a laundry list of prestigious awards. While I
loved the main character, the world building took most of the book. It's as-if
the book was written with the intention of being the first in a series. I did
not excite me for the second book (as of August 2023 I've not continued the
series, yet).

## Anderson, Kevin - Saga of the Seven Suns 01 - Hidden Empire - 04 June 2023  1801 - 4/5
Book first in the [Saga of the Seven Suns][seven-suns] series. Most of this book
is world building. This might get boring There are a ton of characters,
factions, and plots. If you like vast space operas, this is the series for you.
I subtracted one star. Because IMO a lot of the world building could have been
done in later books. There was no need to include some minor plots in book one.

Think of this as the Sci-Fi equivalent of [Wheel of Time][wot] series.

[seven-suns]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Saga_of_Seven_Suns
[wot]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Wheel_of_Time

## Cline, Ernest - Ready Player Two - 07 June 2023  2100 - 0/5
Oh God, where do I start? Even being a fan of "main character transported to
virtual/parallel/fantasy worlds" (or Isekai if you're an anime fan), I did not
like the first book (Ready Player One).

I didn't think it would be possible to cram more 80s references than the first
book, but Ready Player Two did. It's a non-stop vomit. This new book introduces
the concept of "Needlepoints." These are locations in the OASIS that trigger
background music. Every page has at least 2-3 song references played at these
points.

Following the tradition, the new book also has a series of quests. The quests
are very simple. Most of them are handwaved with "I have already done a series
of activities on this planet and have this thingamajig that solves it." At least
3 of them where unnecessary.

## Scalzi, John - The Dispatcher - 08 June 2023  0845 - 4/5
## Scalzi, John - The Dispatcher, Murder by Other Means - 10 June 2023  2130 - 4/5
Scalzi writes "Sci-Fi that sells" and I guess I respect that. You gotta earn a
living. Not every book can be [Old Man's War][old-war].

[old-war]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Old_Man%27s_War_series

Both books are quick and easy reads in the same universe. The universe's premise
is interesting. 999/1000 you return to life after you're killed. The dispatcher
is a state regulated killer. They kill people who are dying so they return to
life.

## Cordova, Jason - Chicks in Tank Tops (Anthology) - 14 June 2023  0919 - 5/5
Nice collection of SFF short stories with female protagonists and, well, tanks!
The tanks are not always conventional. They're balloons, spring-wired
contraptions, and at least in one occasion, a beloved classic literary
character. I only skipped one story in the book.

There are two stories by my favorite author [David Drake][david-drake]. You
would have expected the stories to be about [Hammer's Slammers][slammers], but
they are not. The tank in the stories is a surprise.

[david-drake]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Drake
[slammers]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hammer%27s_Slammers

## Ruocchio, Christopher & Korsgaard, Sean CW - Worlds Long Lost (Anthology) - 16 June 2023  2245 - 4/5
I've quickly become a fan of Baen's anthologies (mostly by Chris Ruocchio).

Collection of short stories involving alien archaeologies. It has quite a few
horror stories, ranging from "ancient Gods waking up" to "mind-controlling
aliens." Some others were more relaxed like "we've found an ancient city, let's
extrapolate how the aliens looked like and lived." Some were more adventurous
and followed the footsteps of extinct civilizations.

The only reason it got 4/5: The story by Orson Scott Card really felt out of
place in this anthology. It really didn't have anything to do with ancient
aliens remains or artifacts. I think they just wanted to include a story by a
famous writer.

## Ruocchio, Christopher & Daniel, Tony - Star Destroyers (Anthology) - 19 June 2023  0002 - 3.5/5
I gave this book 3.5/5 because not all of the stories were really revolving around "ships."

My favorites:

* "Superweapon" (disclosure: I am a huge [David Drake][david-drake] fan) and
  "Another Solution" were two of my favorites. Thoughtful and almost zero action
  with the theme of "ships have souls."
* Some were great action/combat stories like "Hate in the Darkness," "Try Not to
  Kills Us All," "Helping Hand," and "Not Made for Us." TBH, the latter's
  connection to a ship is tangential and the setting could have been anywhere
  else.

What I didn't like:

"Boomers" (ironically, also mirrors the generation midnset) and "Icebreaker"
were a copy of the typical "non-US country bad" online discourse. "Magnolia
Incident" was "don't complain about the military taking away your civil rights
because they're the only thing between you and scary aliens and also there are
ships in this story." If I want a sermon of how "military is the only thing
protecting us from aliens/brown people/bad things" I can re-read
[Starship Troopers][starship-troopers-novel].

[starship-troopers-novel]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Starship_Troopers

## Bear, Greg - War Dogs - 0/5
I stopped on page 130/291. For a military sci-fi book, there was not a lot of
action. It take skill to make a book in this genre boring.Maybe I am more used
to the writing style of Drake, Weber, and Dietz.

## Schmidt, Bryan Thomas - Infinite Stars: the definitive anthology of space opera and military SF (Anthology) - 01 July 2023  1405 - 4.5/5
Great collection of "Space Opera" short stories by some of my favorite writers.
Most are side stories (or in between books) in the authors' established series.
E.g., David Weber's story happens before the Honorverse series. David Drake's
story is about Lt. Leary (RCN series). Lost Fleet story by Jack Campbell and so
on.

If you like this book, read the second volume, "Infinite Stars: Dark Frontiers."

The only stories that I skipped were "Imperium Imposter" and "A Taste of Ashes."

## Williamson, Michael Z. - Freehold 07 - Angleeyes - 05 July 2023  0125 - 0.5/5
Born and raised in an authoritarian Middle-Eastern country, I have a healthy
distaste for government. Williamson is a libertarian and [Freehold][freehold]
was a libertarian utopia. I loved it and appreciated his worldview of "small
folks against big government." I didn't question how the big bad sluggish and
incompetent UN became so powerful. I guess this was before I realized I am more
of a [Mack Reynolds][mack-reynolds] type of "big gov hater."

[mack-reynolds]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mack_Reynolds

Most people's problem with this book are the very detailed and graphic sex
scenes. It's a series of soft porn scenes interlaced with Sci-Fi. I also think
they were unnecessary, but hey, "sex sells."

I am not sure what has happened to the author since the original Freehold book
because he has turned into the online libertarian warrior caricature and a
walking Facebook memes complaining about the new generation.

I laughed out loud halfway through the book when in the middle of the
interrogation, the torturer said "my preferred pronouns are xir." I didn't
expect a "pronouns in bio" moment and the main character ranting about trans
people. You wanna make a torturer trans, I have no problem with that, but "xir
is a torturer because xir is trans" was hilarious.

There were discussions about how minimum wage, employee benefits (Freehold
businesses went bankrupt because they had to provide benefits, lol), work hour
regulations (the torturers couldn't work more than 10 hours, lol), government
mandated contracts and even warnings on tools/appliances. What makes this more
hilarious is the author served 25 years with the US military which has all of
this and more. It's the biggest socialist jobs program in the country.

## Anderson, Kevin - Saga of the Seven Suns 02 - Forest of Stars - 15 July 2023  1220 - 5/5
Book two the [Saga of the Seven Suns][seven-suns]. I liked this one more than
the first because the world building was done and the characters are becoming
more interesting (to me).

## Rusch, Kristin K. - Women of Futures Past: Classic Stories - 16 July 2023  1301 - 5/5
I loved this book. There were so many different stories from different
perspectives. I also liked the author introductions before each story. Those
give the reader an idea of what else the author has written. I added so many
books to my "to read" list.

## Monae, Janelle - The Memory Librarian: And Other Stories of Dirty Computer - 08 July 2023  0130 - 3.5/5
I loved the settings and some of the stories, especially the main story "The
Memory Librarian." "Timebox" was great."Save Changes" was more fantasy than
cyberpunk. I skipped "Nevermind" and "Timebox Altar(ed)" halfway through.

## Gannon, Charles E., Barber, Griffin, Kennedy, Chris, & Massa, Mike - Tales of the Terran Republic - Mission Critical - 21 July 2023  0928 - 4/5
This is a book in the "Tales of The Terran Republic Universe" and part of the
"Murphy's Lawless" series. This book is a compilation of three novellas
"Infiltration" (Griffin Barber), "Insertion" (Chris Kennedy), and "Assault"
(Mike Massa) weaved together. Read the other books before starting this.

I deducted one star because this is not known beforehand. You're dropped in the
middle of a built universe without much explanation. Some of the concepts of the
book are explained through the book, but some questions are never answered.
Like, who are even the Harvesters?

There's a lot of text about character backgrounds and their relationships with
the original inhabitants of the system. These are never fully explored because
they're the subject of previous books in the series.

Other than that, the action is fluid and I liked the how book jumped between
the different locations and how everything came together for the final showdown.

## Ringo, John - Ghost - 0/5
Oh God, where do I start with this. I stopped a few chapters in. Ringo was the
guy whose stories made me realize a not so insignificant portion of Military
Sci-Fi aliens are in fact "bad brown people" (from the Middle-East).

The only positive thing about this book is the famous
["Oh John Ringo, No"][ringo-no] meme.

[ringo-no]: https://hradzka.livejournal.com/194753.html

## Cambias, James L. - Billion Worlds 01 - The Godel Operation - 05 Aug 2023  1019 - 5/5
The "Billion Worlds" universe is set 10,000 years into the future. The billion
worlds refer to the almost innumerable habitats, terraformed planets/moons, and
modified asteroids in the solar system (and a few nearby stars) housing
trillions of biological and digital beings. There are genetically modified
humans, dolphins, Martians, and other species mixed with AIs of different
intelligence levels.

The universe offers digital existence, genetic modification, matter printers
(e.g., create almost any matter like food or clothes). Travel is still bound by
physical laws so going around the solar system is slow (and required
hibernation). There are a few nearby stars that are populated (there's a mention
of ships being sent at around half of the speed of light).

The story follows a group of characters (mainly a "robot AI" and a human) in
search of a superweapon. I like the universe and Cambias' writing style.

## Cambias, James L. - Billion Worlds 02 - The Scarab Mission - 06 Aug 2023  2234 - 5/5
Another quick read in the "Billion Worlds" universe. I will not repeat the
description from my last review (see "The Godel Operation" review above). The
stories are not related. There's a recurring character, but that's about it.
This one is centered around an empty habitat and a group of salvagers who are
looking for valuables.

## Cambias, James L. - Arkad's World - 14 Aug 2023  1114 - 4.5/5
This is my 3rd consecutive James Cambias book in 2 weeks.

Exciting journey of a group of humans through a strange planet inhabited by
countless species of aliens. I give the world building 6/5 and main character
development 3/5.

I especially liked how the author had devised a sort of distinctive grammar and
sentence structure in English for the each species' usage of the planet's
"common tongue" language. My favorite is the Itooti's usage of adjectives based
on the tone of the conversation. E.g., "Curious [Name] wants to know why flimsy
looking aliens [referring to humans] are in civilized [city name]."

Some cons: 2 of the 4 main humans are stock characters and they did not have a
lot of development. A couple of loose ends are not tied.

## Scalzi, John - The Kaiju Preservation Society - 26 Aug 2023  1844 - 3/5
It's an entertaining read. Scalzi is honest about writing science fiction that
sells. I cannot really argue with that, as artists need to eat, too.

## Anderson, Kevin - Saga of the Seven Suns 03 - Horizon Storms - 01 Sep 2023  1527 - 4/5
Book 3 of the "Saga of the Seven Suns." In the honored tradition of such a big
space saga, we will be keeping up with dozens of "main" characters. I like how
some of the characters are being developed (e.g., the king) and how the Ildiran
society is challenged.

## Adams, John J. - Cosmic Powers: The Saga Anthology of Far-Away Galaxies - 16 Sep 2023  1726 - 4/5
I liked most of the stories.

I didn't like "Temporary Embarrassment in Spacetime", "Infinite Love Engine",
"Dragon That Flew Out of the Sun", and "Diamond and the World Breaker."

My favorites:

- "The Deckhand, the Nova Blade, and the Thrice-Sung Texts": Story of a reluctant hero told through diary logs.
- "Frost Giant's Data": Cyberpunk infiltration of a security planetoid.
- "Chameleon's Gloves": What makes us human?
- "The Sighted Watchmaker": Why has our creator left?
- "Zen and the Art of Starship Maintenance" and "Unfamiliar Gods": Variations of "Monkey's Paw."
- "Seven Wonders of a Once and Future World": Time is a flat circle.
