videogames/red-dead-online/index.md, before:

---
draft: false
toc: true
comments: false
categories:
- Videogames
tags:
- Red Dead Online
title: "Red Dead Online"
wip: true
---

# Maps

* [https://jeanropke.github.io/RDOMap/][rdo-map]
* [https://jeanropke.github.io/RDR2CollectorsMap/][collectors-map]

[collectors-map]: https://jeanropke.github.io/RDR2CollectorsMap/

[rdo-map]: https://jeanropke.github.io/RDOMap/

# Challenges
Do at least one daily challenge every day. The streak will increase the gold
payout. This section has my notes about how to complete some of them
quickly-ish. Seems like the streak resets at 28 days since December 2020, boo!.

## General

### Desert Sage
Between the two `O`s in Gaptooth Ridge on the map. Near Tumbleweed.

Source: https://www.reddit.com/r/RedDeadOnline/comments/f97n4u/all_the_desert_sage_you_need_for_the_daily_is/

### Alligators
Around Lagras lake. Use the Lagras fast travel point.

### Longnose Garl
Go to the inlet north of `Saint Denis`. On the map, almost right on top of the
`E` in `Lemoyne`.

* Bait: Crayfish. Buy from the bait shop further north.

![Longnose Garl fishing location](longnose-garl.jpg)

Press the middle mouse button (eagle eye) to see the fish. You are looking for
the big ones. Try to throw your bait close to them. Going first person might
help.

Source for the location:
https://www.reddit.com/r/RedDeadOnline/comments/gdaewh/longnose_gar_location_and_how_to_catch_rdr2_online/fpgejgu/

### Catch Fish with Food
Make sure to use the `bread` bait. The cheese bait did not work for me (26 Feb
2021).

### Catch Fish with Live Bait
Live bait is either crickets or worms. However, there is a "catch" (lol). The
first time when you use a bait, it's live. Sometimes, the bait is note removed
after catching the fish. These subsequent catches with the original bait do not
count.

So if you catch a fish and the bait is not removed, change the bait so you get a
live one.

## Collector
Collector challenges are mostly straight forward and can be completed quickly by
using the [collector's map][collectors-map].

### Yates Diamond Ring
To force respawn, go to the location western edge of the map (not south west,
just west). North of `Little Creek River` and north of `E` in West Elizabeth on
the map is a group of houses. The ring is in a lock box on the top floor of the
house. If it's not there, press escape to open the menu, select `Online` and
then `Free Roam`. You will be back in the same area and the ring has respawned.
You can do it once per reset.

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Wqqoxtfttc

**Possible with other jewelry?**

## Moonshiner

### Revenue Agent Blockades
At least true in Bayou Nwa (probably in other places). The blockades have three
wagons in them. One is full one moonshine and one is completely empty. The last
one has a lockbox in it. Inside the lockbox there is always:

1. A bottle of Moonshine.
1. Cocaine gum.
2. Gold pocket watch (worth 7 or 8 dollars). Note that you can only carry like
   5-6 of them at a time so sell them to fences as soon as you can.
3. Regular revolver bullets.

Make sure to loot it.

## Trader
When doing delivery missions, use the railroad tracks to get there if you can.
Usually. the drop off location is a train station and near the railroad tracks.

## Hunting in Bayou Nwa
I put my camp in Bayou Nwa. I go around the Lagras lake and kill the large
alligators. There are usually a few spawn around the camp. So I can quickly kill
them. The alligators are not that valuable but they are easy to kill and do not
run away unless you shoot them directly.

Shoot them with the bolt action rifle in the head so the pelt quality does not
go down. The smaller alligators that you can pick up are more valuable.

The alligator snapping turtles are considered large animals so you should shoot
them in the head with a rifle. They are also and are usually sedated with three
shots to the head, so good for those "sample two creatures in 10 minutes"
challenges.

You will get a lot of big game meat from the alligators. Large alligators drop 5
pieces and the maximum is 20. Fortunately, one of the superior stew recipes
needs 3 big game meats so you can always create stew. When going to the butcher,
you can sell 20 of them for $15 which is OK money. Be sure to sell all of your
big game meat at the butcher because you will be getting a tone of them.

Skin the birds and sell the feathers. Do not donate them to Cripps. Kill them
with the Varmint rifle.

One annoying issue with carcasses, corpses and items is them disappearing when
they go off screen. Even if I am only 30 seconds of running away.

## Selling Items to Gus vs. Donating
It's better to donate items but you can also sell items to Gus so he can craft
items and trinkets for you. Especially, you should go for the `Buck Antler
Trinket` which somewhat helps and preserves pelt quality. If you shoot a 3 star
animal the pelt quality might not drop. I managed to buy all trinkets during a
30% off at Gus store weekly bonus week.

To make the trinket, you need a `Dane Topaz Necklace`, two buck antlers and some
cash. Different trinket bonuses stack, so ideally, you want to have all of them.
Although, you can buy each one only once.

More info about all the trinkets you can buy:
https://www.reddit.com/r/RedDeadOnline/comments/ia92c4/before_you_buy_trinkets_gus_trapper_store/

## The Hunting Wagon
I would say it's not really a necessity. It is of course convenient if I find a
bunch of animals in the wild and I kill them.

It also spawns only on major roads so be sure to do it there. The reddit
comments mentioned looking at the ground in first person when summoning. Because
it gets summoned out of sight looking down might help? I have not been able to
prove this.

One good thing about the wagon is that you can put stuff in it and then dismiss
it. Later in camp or at the shop you can summon it. The stuff on the wagon
persists between sessions.

It has a capacity of 10 points for carcasses and big pelts (e.g., large
alligator pelts). Each large carcass or large pelt is 2 points, each small
carcass (e.g., birds) is 1. I have read the limit on the number of non-large
pelts (the ones you can stow on the horse without taking space) is 50 but I have
never reached that limit.

It's very fragile. I have had my wagon break down when going through mud.

One trick to make things easier:

1. Hunt with the horse.
2. When the horse is full or you are near a main road with a bunch of carcasses.
3. Unload everything from the horse.
4. Summon the wagon.
5. Drop everything in the wagon.
6. Dismiss the wagon.

# Buy the Outlaw Pass
I got the Outlaw Pass 4. I bought the gold with microtransactions but I had
bought the stand alone game for 5 USD. The pass gave me 15% and then 30% role
bonus which helped me make more gold and money. It also gave me back 30 gold
bars along with a 10 gold bar discount on the bounty hunter license. So it
pretty much paid itself back.

Getting to rank 100 in the pass was not that hard. Considering the XP needed for
every rank is the same (and does not exponentially go up). It's a quick thing.

# What to Buy When Starting Out?
Start with the Collector's track. Go to Madam Nazar and buy the bag. It costs 15
gold bars. Then you can start collecting. Use this amazing map to figure
out what is where and collect everything around you.

When starting out you probably do not have the gold bars to buy anything. I
bought gold with cash which was worth it for me because I did not want to grind
challenges for a few weeks.

[https://jeanropke.github.io/RDR2CollectorsMap/][collectors-map]

Then buy the shovel and then the metal detector. Be sure to **buy the shovel
first**, because the metal detector is useless without the shovel.

On consoles, the controller vibrates when you have the metal detector out and
you are around special locations. On PC, sometimes you have to first person
(press `v`) and then see where the detector starts blinking more rapidly.

I still do not know if it's possible to find things with the metal detector that
are not marked on the map above. Do I go around with the detector in my hand and
hope to find things? Not sure. I am on PC so I cannot rely on the controller
vibration.

After doing missions, delivery sessions, events and more, you will have enough
cash and gold to buy the other items for professions. If you are not in a hurry
and you can wait, wait for a weekly bonus that has these starting items at a
discount. For example, I started the hunter track with a discount and bought the
Naturalist role item a few weeks later when it was 15 gold bars instead of 25.
Later, the moonshine shack was also discounted.

These weekly discounts usually come with XP and payout bonuses. This means you
can concentrate on that role to get to level 20 faster (especially with the
boost from the Outlaw pass).

Commit message:

add alpine goats to red dead online

videogames/red-dead-online/index.md, after:

---
draft: false
toc: true
comments: false
categories:
- Videogames
tags:
- Red Dead Online
title: "Red Dead Online"
wip: true
---

# Maps

* [https://jeanropke.github.io/RDOMap/][rdo-map]
* [https://jeanropke.github.io/RDR2CollectorsMap/][collectors-map]

[collectors-map]: https://jeanropke.github.io/RDR2CollectorsMap/

[rdo-map]: https://jeanropke.github.io/RDOMap/

# Challenges
Do at least one daily challenge every day. The streak will increase the gold
payout. This section has my notes about how to complete some of them
quickly-ish. Seems like the streak resets at 28 days since December 2020, boo!.

## General

### Desert Sage
Between the two `O`s in Gaptooth Ridge on the map. Near Tumbleweed.

Source: https://www.reddit.com/r/RedDeadOnline/comments/f97n4u/all_the_desert_sage_you_need_for_the_daily_is/

### Alligators
Around Lagras lake. Use the Lagras fast travel point.

### Longnose Garl
Go to the inlet north of `Saint Denis`. On the map, almost right on top of the
`E` in `Lemoyne`.

* Bait: Crayfish. Buy from the bait shop further north.

![Longnose Garl fishing location](longnose-garl.jpg)

Press the middle mouse button (eagle eye) to see the fish. You are looking for
the big ones. Try to throw your bait close to them. Going first person might
help.

Source for the location:
https://www.reddit.com/r/RedDeadOnline/comments/gdaewh/longnose_gar_location_and_how_to_catch_rdr2_online/fpgejgu/

### Catch Fish with Food
Make sure to use the `bread` bait. The cheese bait did not work for me (26 Feb
2021).

### Catch Fish with Live Bait
Live bait is either crickets or worms. However, there is a "catch" (lol). The
first time when you use a bait, it's live. Sometimes, the bait is note removed
after catching the fish. These subsequent catches with the original bait do not
count.

So if you catch a fish and the bait is not removed, change the bait so you get a
live one.

### Alpine Goats
Alpine goats are domesticated animals. You can find them in a ranch to the East
of Emerald Station. There should be a goat around. If not, use
`Online > Free Roam` to join a new session. Rinse and repeat.

Source: https://www.guidestash.com/guide/red-dead-redemption-2/alpine-goat-location-red-dead-online/

## Collector
Collector challenges are mostly straight forward and can be completed quickly by
using the [collector's map][collectors-map].

### Yates Diamond Ring
To force respawn, go to the location western edge of the map (not south west,
just west). North of `Little Creek River` and north of `E` in West Elizabeth on
the map is a group of houses. The ring is in a lock box on the top floor of the
house. If it's not there, press escape to open the menu, select `Online` and
then `Free Roam`. You will be back in the same area and the ring has respawned.
You can do it once per reset.

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4Wqqoxtfttc

**Possible with other jewelry?**

## Moonshiner

### Revenue Agent Blockades
At least true in Bayou Nwa (probably in other places). The blockades have three
wagons in them. One is full one moonshine and one is completely empty. The last
one has a lockbox in it. Inside the lockbox there is always:

1. A bottle of Moonshine.
1. Cocaine gum.
2. Gold pocket watch (worth 7 or 8 dollars). Note that you can only carry like
   5-6 of them at a time so sell them to fences as soon as you can.
3. Regular revolver bullets.

Make sure to loot it.

## Trader
When doing delivery missions, use the railroad tracks to get there if you can.
Usually. the drop off location is a train station and near the railroad tracks.

## Hunting in Bayou Nwa
I put my camp in Bayou Nwa. I go around the Lagras lake and kill the large
alligators. There are usually a few spawn around the camp. So I can quickly kill
them. The alligators are not that valuable but they are easy to kill and do not
run away unless you shoot them directly.

Shoot them with the bolt action rifle in the head so the pelt quality does not
go down. The smaller alligators that you can pick up are more valuable.

The alligator snapping turtles are considered large animals so you should shoot
them in the head with a rifle. They are also and are usually sedated with three
shots to the head, so good for those "sample two creatures in 10 minutes"
challenges.

You will get a lot of big game meat from the alligators. Large alligators drop 5
pieces and the maximum is 20. Fortunately, one of the superior stew recipes
needs 3 big game meats so you can always create stew. When going to the butcher,
you can sell 20 of them for $15 which is OK money. Be sure to sell all of your
big game meat at the butcher because you will be getting a tone of them.

Skin the birds and sell the feathers. Do not donate them to Cripps. Kill them
with the Varmint rifle.

One annoying issue with carcasses, corpses and items is them disappearing when
they go off screen. Even if I am only 30 seconds of running away.

## Selling Items to Gus vs. Donating
It's better to donate items but you can also sell items to Gus so he can craft
items and trinkets for you. Especially, you should go for the `Buck Antler
Trinket` which somewhat helps and preserves pelt quality. If you shoot a 3 star
animal the pelt quality might not drop. I managed to buy all trinkets during a
30% off at Gus store weekly bonus week.

To make the trinket, you need a `Dane Topaz Necklace`, two buck antlers and some
cash. Different trinket bonuses stack, so ideally, you want to have all of them.
Although, you can buy each one only once.

More info about all the trinkets you can buy:
https://www.reddit.com/r/RedDeadOnline/comments/ia92c4/before_you_buy_trinkets_gus_trapper_store/

## The Hunting Wagon
I would say it's not really a necessity. It is of course convenient if I find a
bunch of animals in the wild and I kill them.

It also spawns only on major roads so be sure to do it there. The reddit
comments mentioned looking at the ground in first person when summoning. Because
it gets summoned out of sight looking down might help? I have not been able to
prove this.

One good thing about the wagon is that you can put stuff in it and then dismiss
it. Later in camp or at the shop you can summon it. The stuff on the wagon
persists between sessions.

It has a capacity of 10 points for carcasses and big pelts (e.g., large
alligator pelts). Each large carcass or large pelt is 2 points, each small
carcass (e.g., birds) is 1. I have read the limit on the number of non-large
pelts (the ones you can stow on the horse without taking space) is 50 but I have
never reached that limit.

It's very fragile. I have had my wagon break down when going through mud.

One trick to make things easier:

1. Hunt with the horse.
2. When the horse is full or you are near a main road with a bunch of carcasses.
3. Unload everything from the horse.
4. Summon the wagon.
5. Drop everything in the wagon.
6. Dismiss the wagon.

# Buy the Outlaw Pass
I got the Outlaw Pass 4. I bought the gold with microtransactions but I had
bought the stand alone game for 5 USD. The pass gave me 15% and then 30% role
bonus which helped me make more gold and money. It also gave me back 30 gold
bars along with a 10 gold bar discount on the bounty hunter license. So it
pretty much paid itself back.

Getting to rank 100 in the pass was not that hard. Considering the XP needed for
every rank is the same (and does not exponentially go up). It's a quick thing.

# What to Buy When Starting Out?
Start with the Collector's track. Go to Madam Nazar and buy the bag. It costs 15
gold bars. Then you can start collecting. Use this amazing map to figure
out what is where and collect everything around you.

When starting out you probably do not have the gold bars to buy anything. I
bought gold with cash which was worth it for me because I did not want to grind
challenges for a few weeks.

[https://jeanropke.github.io/RDR2CollectorsMap/][collectors-map]

Then buy the shovel and then the metal detector. Be sure to **buy the shovel
first**, because the metal detector is useless without the shovel.

On consoles, the controller vibrates when you have the metal detector out and
you are around special locations. On PC, sometimes you have to first person
(press `v`) and then see where the detector starts blinking more rapidly.

I still do not know if it's possible to find things with the metal detector that
are not marked on the map above. Do I go around with the detector in my hand and
hope to find things? Not sure. I am on PC so I cannot rely on the controller
vibration.

After doing missions, delivery sessions, events and more, you will have enough
cash and gold to buy the other items for professions. If you are not in a hurry
and you can wait, wait for a weekly bonus that has these starting items at a
discount. For example, I started the hunter track with a discount and bought the
Naturalist role item a few weeks later when it was 15 gold bars instead of 25.
Later, the moonshine shack was also discounted.

These weekly discounts usually come with XP and payout bonuses. This means you
can concentrate on that role to get to level 20 faster (especially with the
boost from the Outlaw pass).
